>> Woodruff: IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
A PROPOSED CEASE-FIRE COLLAPSES
AND ISRAEL ACCUSES HAMAS OF
CAPTURING ONE OF ITS SOLDIERS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE U.N. WARNS OF
CATASTROPHIC CONSEQUENCES IF
WEST AFRICA FAILS TO STEM AN
EBOLA EPIDEMIC AND TWO AMERICANS
INFECTED ARE RETURNING TO THE
U.S FOR TREATMENT.
AS CALIFORNIA GRAPPLES WITH ONE
OF THE WORST DROUGHTS IN
DECADES, FARMERS DIG DEEP BELOW
THE SURFACE TO TAP UNDERGROUND
WATER RESOURCES, BUT THOSE WELLS
MIGHT RUN DRY, TOO.
>> TOO MANY PEOPLE VIEW THE
GROUNDWATER SYSTEM AS A BIG
BLACK BOX THAT IS GOING TO KEEP
SUPPLYING WATER FOR THEM
INDEFINITELY; ITS NOT.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY,
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE THIS
WEEK'S POLITICAL ROLLER-COASTER
IN CONGRESS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: AFTER A FAILED
ATTEMPT AT A CEASE-FIRE, THE
FIGHTING BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS IS ESCALATING AGAIN.
ISRAELI SOLDIERS HAVE MOVED
DEEPER INTO SOUTHERN GAZA IN
SEARCH OF ONE OF THEIR SOLDIERS
WHO APPARENTLY WAS CAPTURED.
TO DATE, THE CONFLICT HAS
RESULTED IN THE DEATHS OF AT
LEAST 1,500 PALESTINIANS--
MAINLY CIVILIANS-- AND ISRAEL
HAS LOST 63 SOLDIERS AND THREE
CIVILIANS.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
HAS MORE.
>> Warner: THE FLARES AND
EXPLOSIONS THAT RATTLED GAZA
OVERNIGHT QUIETED AS THE
CEASEFIRE-- WHICH HELD THE MOST
PROMISE FOR ALLOWING A
RESOLUTION TO THE 25-DAY LONG
CRISIS-- WENT INTO EFFECT AT
8:00 A.M.
IN ISRAEL, SOLDIERS RESTED BY
THEIR TANKS.
AND IN GAZA, THOUSANDS OF
RESIDENTS FLOODED INTO THE
STREETS, SOME RESTOCKED
SUPPLIES, OTHERS SURVEYED THE
DAMAGE.
BUT IN LESS THAN TWO HOURS, THE
CEASE-FIRE BLEW UP.
ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES SPOKESMAN
PETER LERNER CHARGED HAMAS BROKE
THE TRUCE WHEN MILITANTS
ATTACKED ISRAELI FORCES
DISMANTLING TUNNELS INSIDE GAZA
TERRITORY UNDER THEIR CONTROL.
>> AT HALF PAST 9:00 THIS
MORNING, TWO TERRORISTS CAME OUT
OF A TUNNEL.
ONE OF THEM DETONATED HIMSELF IN
A SUICIDE BOMBING ATTACK,
KILLING TWO SOLDIERS.
ANOTHER ONE CAME OUT, SHOOTING
WITH AN AUTOMATIC WEAPON AND IN
THE AFTERMATH OF THAT WE NOTICED
THAT WE HAD AN OFFICER THAT HAD
BEEN ABDUCTED INTO THE TUNNEL.
INDEED WE BEGAN TO PURSUE THIS
ATTACK, WE WENT TO THE TUNNEL.
>> Woodruff: ISRAEL RESPONDED
QUICKLY WITH TANKS FIRING TOWARD
THE SOUTHERN GAZAN TOWN OF
RAFAH.
RESIDENTS SCRAMBLED FOR COVER,
AND PALESTINIAN OFFICIALS
CLAIMED AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN THE SHELLING.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS DECLARED THE
CEASE-FIRE OVER, AND BY DAY'S
END 62 PALESTINIANS AND TWO
ISRAELI SOLDIERS WERE BELIEVED
DEAD.
THIS AFTERNOON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
HAD STRONG WORDS FOR HAMAS'S
REPORTED ACTIONS:
>> I HAVE UNEQUIVOCALLY
CONDEMNED HAMAS AND THE PALS
YNTS FACTIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR
KILLING TWO ISRAELI SOLDIERS AND
ABDUCTING A THIRD ALMOST MINUTES
AFTER A CEASE FIRE HAD BEEN
ANNOUNCED.
AND THE U.N. HAS CONDEMNED THEM
AS WELL.
AND, YOU KNOW, I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY ARE LISTENING.
>> Warner: THE FATHER OF THE
SOLDIER ISRAEL REPORTED
CAPTURED-- SECOND-LIEUTENANT
HADAR GOLDIN-- SAID HE WAS
HOPEFUL HIS SON WOULD BE
RETURNED.
>> ( translated ): WE WANT TO
SUPPORT THE ISRAELI ARMY AND THE
STATE OF ISRAEL IN ITS FIGHT
AGAINST HAMAS IN GAZA AND WE ARE
CERTAIN THAT THE ARMY WILL NOT
STOP UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCE, AND
WILL BRING HADAR BACK HOME SAFE
AND SOUND.
>> Warner: BUT HAMAS DENIED ANY
KNOWLEDGE OF A CAPTURED SOLDIER.
AND A SPOKESMAN DENIED BREAKING
THE CEASE-FIRE:
>> ( translated ): THE ISRAELI
ENEMY IS THE ONE THAT BREACHED
THE TRUCE, WHEN ISRAELI SPECIAL
FORCES ENTERED THE EASTERN SIDE
OF RAFAH.
THE PALESTINIAN RESISTANCE
CLASHED WITH THEM, AND THIS WAS
OUR RIGHT TO DEFEND OURSELVES,
ACCORDING TO OUR UNDERSTANDING
>> Woodruff: AND PALESTINIAN
PROTESTERS CLASHED WITH ISRAELI
FORCES IN THE WEST BANK.
THE 72-HOUR CEASE-FIRE WAS TO BE
FOLLOWED BY ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
NEGOTIATIONS IN EGYPT ON FINDING
A DURABLE SOLUTION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID TODAY THE
U.S. WILL CONTINUE PURSUING THAT
TRACK.
OFFICIALS IN CAIRO SAID THE
INVITATION TO BOTH PARTIES STILL
STANDS.
AND MARGARET JOINS ME NOW.
WHAT'S THE ISSUE HERE?
>> ONE ISSUE, THERE ARE ISSUES
ABOUT WHO STARTED IT.
YOU HEARD THE ISRAELI VERSION
THAT THEIR SOLDIERS WERE
OPERATING WITHIN THEIR LINE OF
CONTROL AND WERE AMBUSHED IN A
WAY THAT WAS DESCRIBED, AND
YOU'VE HEARD HAMAS SAY, NO, THE
ISRAELIS STARTED IT, THEY'VE
MADE UP THIS STORY AS A PRETEXT
TO START OFFENSIVE ACTIONS AND
THAT THEY HAD MOVED UP THEIR
LINE OF CONTROL DURING THE
PERIOD BETWEEN HOWEVER LATE LAST
NIGHT THE DEAL WAS STRUCK AND
8:00 A.M.
THE ISRAELIS SAY THAT MIGHT BE
TRUE, THEY'RE STILL LOOKING INTO
THAT, BUT IT'S IRRELEVANT BOTH
SIDES USED THE INTERIM.
THE BIG DISPUTE IS WHETHER THERE
WAS A SOLDIER CAPTURED AND IF SO
DID HAMAS DO IT.
>> Woodruff: WHY WOULDN'T
HAMAS TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THIS WHICH IS WHAT THEY'VE DONE
IN THE PAST?
>> THAT'S THE HUGE MYSTERY.
IN THE PAST, THEY HAVE CORRODE
ABOUT SUCH WHIMS.
BASICALLY, JUDY, THERE ARE SO
MANY DIFFERENT THEORIES OUT
THERE AND NOBODY REALLY KNOWS.
ONE IS HAMAS DIDN'T ACTUALLY
ORDER IT BUT A DISSIDENT FACTION
THAT DIDN'T AGREE WITH THE CEASE
FIRE AND ONE U.N. OFFICIAL SAID
THERE ARE FACTIONS WITHIN
FACTIONS, IT'S NOT JUST THE
MILITARY VERSUS POLITICAL WING.
THE OTHER VERY INTERESTING
THEORY IS THAT IF THIS HAPPENED
IN THE HEAT OF BATTLE AND IT
SOUNDS AS IF IT REALLY DID AND
IN THE CONFUSION OF BATTLE, IF
THIS SOLDIER WAS SEIZED AND
SECRET AID WAY IN A BASEMENT
SOMEWHERE IN THIS AREA, IT IS
POSSIBLE THE HAMAS LEADERSHIP
DOESN'T ACTUALLY KNOW, BECAUSE
COMMUNICATIONS HAVE ALMOST
TOTALLY BROKEN DOWN WITHIN GAZA,
THERE'S ALMOST NO ELECTRICITY,
PEOPLE CAN'T CHARGE CELL PHONES
AND SO ON, SO IF YOU NOTICE WHAT
THE PALESTINIAN AND HAMAS
SPOKESMEN KEEP SAYING IS WE
CAN'T CONFIRM WE HAVE ONE YET.
>> Woodruff: WHAT HAPPENS, IF
THE ISRAELIS CAN'T FIND THE
SOLDIER, WHAT'S NEXT?
>> RIGHT NOW THEY ARE TOTALLY
FOCUSED ON FINDING THE SOLDIER
AND THEY KICKED IN WHAT THEY
CALL OPERATION HANNIBAL WHICH IS
WHAT THEY ALWAYS PLAN TO DO,
SEAL OFF THE AREA AND GO HOUSE
TO HOUSE.
OF COURSE, THEY'RE STILL
CLEARING TUNNELS AND GOING AFTER
ROCKETS, THEY WILL NOT SPECULATE
ABOUT WHAT THEY WILL DO NEXT.
THERE ARE A LOFT U.N. OFFICIALS
THAT ARE AFRAID IF THEY DON'T
FIND THE SOLDIER, BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU WILL BE PRESSURED TO
ANNOUNCE A BIG EXPANSION.
BUT I WAS TOLD BY ISRAELIS
YESTERDAY THEY WERE STUNNED BY
U.S. CONDEMNATION OF THEIR
ATTACK ON THIS SCHOOL WHICH WAS
A U.N. SHELTER AND THEY'RE GOING
TO THINK TWICE ABOUT EXPANDING
OPERATIONS FURTHER.
>> Woodruff: JUST IN A SECOND,
IF WHAT HAPPENED TODAY CANNOT
BODE WELL WITH --
>> NO, P.L.O SAYS THEY WILL SEND
A DELEGATION, THE EGYPTIANS ARE
SENDING A DELEGATION.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS TOLD ME
ABSOLUTELY NOT, OUR FOCUS IS ON
MILITARY ACTION AND WE'RE GOING
INTO THE SABBATH AND, SO, I
THINK IF THIS SOLDIER IS NOT
FOUND DEAD OR ALIVE, IF HE IS
NOT FOUND, THAT THE PROSPECTS
ARE JUST MORE CARNAGE.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: A TEAM OF 70
INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATORS
FANNED OUT ACROSS THE EASTERN
UKRAINE CRASH SITE OF MALAYSIA
AIRLINES FLIGHT 17 TODAY.
THEY COMBED THROUGH THE
WRECKAGE, LOCATING SOME OF THE
REMAINS OF AS MANY AS 80 VICTIMS
THAT HAD BEEN MISSING SINCE THE
PLANE WAS SHOT DOWN TWO WEEKS
AGO.
FIGHTING STILL RAGED NEARBY.
THE UKRAINIAN NATIONAL SECURITY
SPOKESMAN CONFIRMED AT LEAST TEN
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED WHEN THEIR
CONVOY CAME UNDER ATTACK BY PRO-
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS.
>> ( translated ): THERE IS
INFORMATION THAT THE AMBUSH WAS
BY THE REBELS WHO ARE TRYING TO
DEFEND THE AREA FROM THE
UKRAINIAN ARMY.
THEY ARE DOING THAT BECAUSE IT
IS A STRATEGIC POINT THAT WOULD
ALLOW US TO CUT OFF LUTHANSK
FROM DONETSK-- TWO REBEL
STRONGHOLDS.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA INSISTED THE
U.S. IS DOING EVERYTHING IT CAN
TO PREVENT RUSSIA FROM
INTERVENING IN THE UKRAINE
CRISIS.
HE SAID PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
SHOULD WANT TO COOPERATE IN
ORDER TO LIFT TOUGH ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS ON HIS COUNTRY.
BUT MR. OBAMA ACKNOWLEDGED,
"SOMETIMES PEOPLE DON'T ALWAYS
ACT RATIONALLY."
A CONTROVERSIAL AND MUCH-
PROTESTED ANTI-GAY LAW IN UGANDA
WAS INVALIDATED TODAY.
THE COUNTRY'S CONSTITUTIONAL
COURT RULED IT WAS "NULL AND
VOID" BECAUSE THE PARLIAMENT
DIDN'T HAVE A QUORUM WHEN IT WAS
PASSED EARLIER THIS YEAR.
THE LAW IMPOSED SENTENCES OF UP
TO LIFE IN PRISON FOR THOSE WHO
ENGAGED IN HOMOSEXUAL RELATIONS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ACKNOWLEDGED
TODAY THAT THE U.S. TORTURED AL
QAEDA DETAINEES CAPTURED AFTER
THE 9/11 ATTACKS.
HE CONFIRMED THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
TURNED OVER A DECLASSIFIED
REPORT TO THE SENATE ABOUT THE
C.I.A'S INTERROGATION
TECHNIQUES.
THE PRESIDENT MADE SOME OF HIS
MOST EXPANSIVE COMMENTS TO DATE
WITH REPORTERS THIS AFTERNOON.
>> EVEN BEFORE I CAME INTO
OFFICE I WAS VERY CLEAR THAT
IN THE IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF
9/11 WE DID SOME THINGS THAT
WERE WRONG.
WE DID A WHOLE LOT OF THINGS
THAT WERE RIGHT, BUT WE TORTURED
SOME FOLKS.
WE DID SOME THINGS THAT WERE
CONTRARY TO OUR VALUES.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT ADDED
HE COULD UNDERSTAND WHY THIS
HAPPENED, THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS WERE "REAL PATRIOTS"
UNDER "ENORMOUS PRESSURE."
SEPARATELY, HE EXPRESSED HIS
FULL SUPPORT FOR C.I.A DIRECTOR
JOHN BRENNAN, WHO FACED CALLS TO
RESIGN FROM TWO SENATORS TODAY.
AN INTERNAL C.I.A REPORT
CONCLUDED SOME AGENCY EMPLOYEES
SPIED ON A SENATE COMPUTER
NETWORK WHILE THEY WERE
PREPARING A REPORT ON THE
AGENCY'S INTERROGATION PROGRAM.
BRENNAN HAS ORDERED AN
ACCOUNTABILITY BOARD TO
INVESTIGATE.
BEFORE HEADING OUT OF TOWN FOR
ITS AUGUST BREAK, THE SENATE
MANAGED TO FINISH SOME BUSINESS.
IT SENT A BILL TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA TO REVAMP THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND IT
BACKED A BILL TO FUND HIGHWAY
AND TRANSIT PROJECTS THROUGH
NEXT MAY.
ON THE HOUSE SIDE, REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS TRIED TO HAMMER OUT
REVISED LEGISLATION ON
IMMIGRATION AFTER A BORDER BILL
COMPLETELY UNRAVELED YESTERDAY.
WE'LL COME BACK TO THAT WITH
SHIELDS AND BROOKS A LITTLE
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
JULY WAS AN EXCELLENT MONTH FOR
CAR SALES IN THE U.S., HELPED
ALONG BY DEEP DISCOUNTS.
FORD, CHRYSLER, TOYOTA AND
NISSAN ALL HAD DOUBLE-DIGIT
GAINS.
AND EVEN IN THE MIDST OF ITS
MASSIVE RECALL EFFORT, GENERAL
MOTORS' SALES WERE UP 9% OVER A
YEAR AGO.
ON WALL STREET, U.S. MARKETS
ROUNDED OUT THEIR WORST WEEK IN
TWO YEARS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 70 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,493.
THE NASDAQ FELL 17 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,352.
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED FIVE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 1,925.
FOR THE WEEK THE DOW, NASDAQ,
AND S&P ALL FELL MORE THAN 2%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
AN EBOLA OUTBREAK RAVAGES WEST
AFRICA, WHAT THE LATEST JOBS
NUMBERS SAY ABOUT THE STATE OF
THE U.S. ECONOMY, CALIFORNIA
FARMERS LOOK UNDERGROUND FOR
WATER TO COMBAT THE DROUGHT,
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS,PG
WITH DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE LATEST ON
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST
AFRICA, WHICH IS MOVING FASTER
THAN EFFORTS TO CONTAIN IT.
INEA,ISEASE HAS STRUCK HARD IN
LIBERIA AND SIERRA LEONE-- WHICH
IS THE EPICENTER.
A LIBERIAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
WHO'D FLOWN TO NIGERIA'S LARGEST
CITY, LAGOS, DIED OF THE DISEASE
IN A HOSPITAL THERE.
TWO AMERICAN AID WORKERS
INFECTED IN LIBERIA-- 33-YEAR-
OLD KENT BRANTLY AND 59-YEAR-OLD
NANCY WRITEBOL-- WILL BE SENT
BACK FOR CARE AT EMORY
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL IN ATLANTA.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME ANY EBOLA
PATIENT HAS BEEN SENT BACK TO
THE U.S. FOR TREATMENT.
THIS AFTERNOON, DR. BRUCE RIBNER
OF EMORY SAID THERE WAS NO CAUSE
FOR ALARM AMONG THE PUBLIC.
>> FROM THE TIME AIR AMBULANCE
ARRIVES IN METROPOLITAN ATLANTA
AREA UP TO AND INCLUDING BEING
HOSPITALIZED AT EMORY UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL WE HAVE TAKEN EVERY
PRECAUTION THAT WE KNOW AND OUR
COLLEAGUES AT THE C.D.C KNOW TO
ENSURE THAT THERE IS NO SPREAD
OF THIS VIRUS PATHOGEN.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN IN
FROM THERE. STUDIOS PICKS UP
>> Sreenivasan: TO DATE, 729
PEOPLE HAVE DIED OUT OF MORE
THAN 1,300 DOCUMENTED OR
SUSPECTED INFECTIONS.
TODAY, THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION SAID IT WOULD
LAUNCH A $100 MILLION PLAN TO
DEPLOY MORE HEALTH WORKERS TO
THE REGION.
IT CAME ONE DAY AFTER THE C.D.C
WARNED AMERICANS NOT TO TRAVEL
TO THE AFFECTED COUNTRIES UNLESS
NECESSARY.
DR. TOM FRIEDEN IS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE C.D.C AND HE JOINS ME
NOW.
FIRST OFF, WHAT CAN YOU TELL
PEOPLE TO ASSURE THEM THAT THIS
DISEASE WILL NOT SPREAD TO
ATLANTA OR OTHER PARTS OF THE
UNITED STATES AS WE BRING THESE
PATIENTS BACK?
>> WELL, FIRST OFF, IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND HOW
EBOLA SPREADS AND HOW IT'S
SPREADING IN AFRICA.
THE OUTBREAK THERES THE WORST
WE'VE EVER SEEN, BUT EBOLA
DOESN'T SPREAD FROM PEOPLE WHO
DON'T HAVE SYMPTOMS.
SO IF YOU HAVE CONTACT WITH
SOMEONE WHO IS EXPOSED BUT NOT
SICK, YOU CAN'T GET IT.
SECOND, EBOLA ISN'T SPREAD BY
CASUAL CONTACT.
IT'S NOT SPREAD THROUGH THE AIR.
IT'S SPREAD THROUGH BODY FLUIDS.
THAT'S WHY, IN AFRICA, THE TWO
MAIN WAYS IT'S SPREADING ARE BY
HEALTHCARE WHEN THERE'S NOT GOOD
INFECTION CONTROL AND FUNERALS
WHERE THERE'S HANDLING OF
BODIES.
IN THIS COUNTRY, WE HAVE PLENTY
OF WAYS TO MAKE SURE IF A
PATIENT WITH EBOLA ENDS UP HERE,
WE HAVE ISOLATION FACILITIES IN
EVERY MAJOR HOSPITAL IN THE
COUNTRY AND ISOLATION PROCEDURES
THAT WOULD PREVENT HEALTHCARE
WORKERS FROM BECOMING EXPOSED OR
INFECTED AND, OF COURSE, IF
ANYONE WERE TO DIE, WE HAVE SAFE
BURIAL PROCEDURES.
IT'S HARD TO CONTROL IN AFRICA,
IT'S EASY TO STOP IN THE U.S.
>> Sreenivasan: SO IF IT IS
EASY TO STOP, WHY THE
EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES, THE
PRIVATE CHARTED JET, THE
ISOLATION UNIT THAT CONTAINS THE
PATIENTS?
>> THE ISSUE IS THAT THE STAKES
ARE SO HIGH.
SO IF YOU HAVE A LAPSE IN
INFECTION CONTROL IN A HOSPITAL,
AS HAPPENS SOMETIMES, YOU MAY
GET AN INFECTION OR A HEALTHCARE
WORKER MAY GET INFECTED OR
SPREAD IT TO ANOTHER PATIENT.
THE FATALITY RATE FATAL.
RANGES FROM 40 TO 90%.
SO BECAUSE THE STAKES ARE SO
HIGH, IT'S NOT THAT WE DO
DIFFERENT PROCEDURES, IT'S THAT
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEY'RE ABSOLUTELY SECURE,
THEY'RE ABSOLUTELY WELL DONE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE C.D.C.
GIVING GUIDELINES TO OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES WHO MIGHT BR
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL,
HOMELAND SECURITY?
WE OBVIOUSLY HAVE PEOPLE AND
GOODS COMING BACK AND FORTH FROM
AFRICA, THE AFFECTED AREAS AS
WELL.
WE KNOW WE HAVE A CONFERENCE
COMING UP NEXT WEEK WHERE LOTS
OF AFRICAN LEADERS ARE EXPECTED
TO COME TO D.C.
>> WE WORK VERY CLOSELY ACROSS
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
THERE ARE CONFERENCES NEXT WEEK,
AS YOU MENTIONED.
BUT, OF COURSE, AFRICA IS A
LARGE CONTINENT.
THERE ARE THREE SMALL COUNTRIES
WITHIN THE CONTINENT AND STEPS
ARE BEING TAKEN TO SEE ABOUT THE
DELEGATIONS COMING FROM THOSE
COUNTRIES.
BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT, TO
PROTECT AMERICANS,
FUNDAMENTALLY, WE'RE DOING THREE
THINGS.
FIRST, CONTROLLING THE OUTBREAK
WHERE IT'S SPREADING.
THAT'S THE MOST EFFECTIVE AND
THE BEST WAY TO DO IT BECAUSE
THAT'S THE SOURCE.
SECOND, WE'RE HELPING EACH OF
THESE THREE COUNTRIES DO BETTER
EXIT SCREENING SO THEY'LL REDUCE
THE LIKELIHOOD THAT SOMEONE WHO
IS EITHER SICK OR HAS BEEN
EXPOSED LEAVES AND BECOMES
INFECTIOUS IN TRANSIT OR WHEN
THEY ARRIVE SOMEWHERE ELSE AND,
THIRD, WE'RE LEARNING PEOPLE
THROUGHOUT THE U.S. HEALTHCARE
SYSTEMS OF WHAT TO THINK ABOUT
IN CASE SOMEONE COMES FROM
LIBERIA OR SIERRA LEONE WITHIN
THREE WEEKS AND HAS A FEVER,
WHAT DO YOU DO?
IN MOST CASES IT'S THE FLU OR A
COLD, BUT IN SOME IT'S EBOLA,
AND YOU ISOLATE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION SAID IT'S
SPREADING FASTER THAN THEIR
ABILITY TO CONTAIN IT.
DOES THAT CONCERN YOU?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
SITUATION IN AFRICA AND WEST
AFRICA AND THESE THREE
COUNTRIES.
IT'S THE LARGEST, MOST COMPLEX
AND DIVERSE OUTBREAK OF EBOLA
AND CROSSING BORDERS, SO WHEN
IT'S CONTROLLED IN ONE COUNTRY,
IT FLARES UP IN THE OTHER.
CONTROLLING EBOLA IS POSSIBLE.
EVEN THOUGH WE DON'T HAVE
VACCINATIONS, WE KNOW HOW TO
STOP IT AND WE'VE STOPPED EVERY
OUTBREAK THAT OCCURRED TO DATE
AND I AM CONFIDENT WE'LL
EVENTUALLY STOP THIS ONE BUT THE
CHALLENGES ARE HUGE BECAUSE YOU
HAVE TO HAVE THE CONTACT TRACING
AND CASE MANAGEMENT RIGHT.
IF YOU MISS ONE CASE, IT'S LIKE
EMBERS IN A FOREST FIRE, IT
REIGNITES AND YOU HAVE TO START
THE PROCESS ALL OVER AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: BRIEFLY, I
KNOW THAT YOU'RE SENDING
ADDITIONAL DOCTORS TO THE
REGION.
ANY CONCERNS FOR THEIR HEALTH?
>> WE HAVE SAFETY AS THE FIRST
CONCERN FOR OUR STAFF, SO WE
WILL NOT SEND PEOPLE TO UNSAFE
ENVIRONMENTS.
WE PLAN TO SURGE THE C.D.C.
RESPONSE AND WE'RE PLANNING TO
SEND 50 MORE STAFF TO THE REGION
IN THE NEXT 30 DAYS TO HELP WITH
THE RESPONSE, TO HELP FIND
PATIENTS, TRACK CONTACTS, MAKE
SURE THEY'RE EFFECTIVELY
ISOLATED, DO THE LABORATORY WORK
TO SEE WHERE THE INFECTIONS ARE
OCCURRING AND WHETHER THERE ARE
INFECTIONS AND IMPROVE THE
RESPONSE OVERALL INCLUDING
COMMUNICATION BECAUSE THERE HAVE
BEEN MANY MISCONCEPTIONS IN THE
REGION.
THIS IS A NEW DISEASE TO WEST
AFRICA.
IT'S A BIG CONTRAST TO OTHER
PLACES WHERE WE'VE WORKED WHERE
AFTER MANY YEARS WE'VE WORKED,
WE HAVE PRODUCTIVE AND
CONSTRUCTIVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH
EVERYONE RANGING FROM
TRADITIONAL HEALERS TO
MINISTRIES OF HEALTH.
HERE, WE HAVE TO REINVENT THAT
SYSTEM IN A NEW PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: DIRECTOR TOM
FRIEDEN OF THE C.D.C., THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: THIS HAS BEEN AN
IMPORTANT WEEK FOR GAUGING THE
HEALTH OF THE U.S. ECONOMY.
WE LEARNED ON WEDNESDAY THAT
GROWTH WAS BETTER THAN EXPECTED.
AND TODAY'S JOBS REPORT SHOWS
SOLID HIRING AGAIN.
IT POINTS TOWARD A STRENGTHENINN
COMPARED TO THE EARLIER PART OF
THIS RECOVERY.
BUT THE LIMITS OF THE LABOR
MARKET ARE STILL VERY APPARENT.
AS NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLOMAN FOUND
OUT PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS".
>> Reporter: THE JULY JOBS JUMP
WAS A BIT LOWER THAN EXPECTED
BUT IT STILL MARKED THE SIXTH
MONTH IN A ROW THE ECONOMY GREW
BY 200,000 PLUS JOBS, ACCORDING
TO THE SURVEY OPL
THE LAST TIME THAT HAPPENED?
1997.
>> THE RECOVERY CONTINUES.
CALL THE ECONOMY THE LITTLE
ENGINE THAT COULD.
IT KEEPS ON PUFFING AND PUFFING
AND GETTING US UP OUT OF THE
HOLE THE GREAT RECESSION
CREATED.
>> Reporter: ECONOMIST JUSTIN
WOLFERS IS A SENIOR FELLOW AT
THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION.
>> IT'S NOT SPECTACULAR BUT
WE'RE CREATING ENOUGH JOBS THAT
WE'RE REALLY STARTING TO MAKE
PROGRESS.
>> Reporter: MORE EVIDENCE:
EMPLOYERS ADDED 15,000 MORE JOBS
IN MAY AND JUNE THAN WAS FIRST
REPORTED.
AND EMPLOYMENT GROWTH WAS FAIRLY
BROAD-BASED, FROM ENGINEERING,
TO RETAIL AND MANUFACTURING.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, BASED ON THE
MONTHLY SURVEY OF HOUSEHOLDS,
ROSE SLIGHTLY, FROM 6.1 TO 6.2%.
WHAT DOES WOLFERS MAKE OF THAT?
>> THAT'S STATISTICAL NOISE.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FALLING A
QUARTER POINT, A HALF POINT OVER
THE LAST THREE AND SIX MONTHS,
GETTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK.
THERE'S STILL A LOT TO GET BACK
TO WORK BUT IF WE KEEP GOING AT
THIS PACE, WE'RE GONNA BRING
THEM ALL BACK.
>> Reporter: M.I.T NOBEL
LAUREATON
IS ALSO ENCOURAGED BY THE JOB
GAINS, BUT HE'S BEEN TRACKING
MORE TROUBLING TRENDS IN THE
LABOR MARKET AS WELL.
FOR EXAMPLE:
>> THE VERY LARGE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO HAVE PART-TIME JOBS,
AND WANT FULL-TIME JOBS.
THE VERY LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE DISCOURAGED WORKERS WHO
WOULD LIKE JOBS BUT WEREN'T
ACTUALLY SEARCHING BECAUSE
AND THE VARIABLE THAT TO ME IS A
BIG CLUE TO WHAT'S GOING ON: HOW
EXTREMELY LOW THE QUIT RATE IS.
>> Reporter: THE QUIT RATE?
>> THE WORKERS WHO QUIT WHO WERE
THEY HAVE CONFIDENCE THEY CAN
GET A BETTER JOB.
THEY'RE WAY LOW AND THAT'S A
SIGN OF A WEAK LABOR MARKET,
THAT'S THE REASON WAGES ARE NOT
DOING AS WELL AS YOU MIGHT
EXPECT GIVEN THE HIRES AND GIVEN
THE STEADY DROPS IN THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE.
>> Reporter: COMPARED TO PRE-
CRASH DAYS, SAYS DIAMOND, SOME
400-500,000 LESS QUITS PER
MONTH.
SO YOU MEAN SOMEWHERE NEAR HALF
A MILLION FEWER AMERICANS PER
MONTH ARE LEAVING JOBS TO GET
NEW ONES, MEANING THAT HALF A
MILLION JOBS THAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE WHO
WERE UNEMPLOYED, AREN'T?
>> YES.
THE WAY THE JOB MARKET WORKS IS
PEOPLE MOVE UP NOT JUST A JOB
LADDER WITH SENIORITY INSIDE A
SIZABLE FIRM, BUT BY MOVING FROM
FIRM TO FIRM, FROM LOWER PAID
JOBS TO HIGHER PAID JOBS.
>> Reporter: INDEED, WAGES ROSE
JUST A PENNY AN HOUR IN JULY, AN
ANNUAL RATE OF .5%.
WOLFERS' EXPLANATION?
>> THERE'S SO MUCH PRESSURE FROM
THE PEOPLE WITHOUT WORK THAT
THOSE WHO DO HAVE WORK CAN'T OR
DON'T FEEL READY TO ASK FOR A
WAGE RAISE.
>> Reporter: AND, WOLFERS ADDS,
FEWER PEOPLE QUITTING THEIR
JOBS, AND LESS TURNOVER IN THE
JOBS MARKET IN GENERAL, HAS
OTHER IMPLICATIONS.
>> THE BURDEN OF UNEMPLOYMENT IS
BEING BORNE BY A SMALL NUMBER OF
PEOPLE.
SO THERE ARE TWO WAYS WE COULD
HAVE 6% UNEMPLOYMENT: IT COULD
BE A LOT OF TURNOVER AND EACH OF
US UNEMPLOYED FOR A SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME, OR NOT MUCH TURNOVER
AND THE BURDEN BEING BORNE BY A
SMALL NUMBER OF PEOPLE,
UNEMPLOYED FOR A MUCH LONGER
PERIOD.
NOW UNFORTUNATELY, THAT'S THE
SITUATION WE'RE IN.
SO REDUCED TURNOVER AND DYNAMISM
IS ALSO LARGELY EXPLAINS WHY IT
IS THAT LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT
REMAINS SO HIGH AND I THINK
REMAINS THE BIGGEST PROBLEM FOR
THIS RECOVERY.
>> Reporter: SO WHEN THE
HEADLINES SAY, "GOOD NEWS!
200,000 OR MORE NEW JOBS BEING
CREATED EVERY MONTH" -- YOU SAY,
IN CONTEXT, NOT SO GOOD, BECAUSE
THERE ISN'T NEARLY AS MUCH CHURN
IN THE ECONOMY.
NOT NEARLY AS MANY PEOPLE
LEAVING JOBS FOR NEW JOBS AS
THERE HAD BEEN.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT CHURN IN
THE LABOR MARKET, IT'S A GOOD
THING.
BECAUSE IT'S A VITAL PART OF HOW
WE GET OUR LABOR MARKET TO BE
MORE EFFICIENT.
>> Reporter: BUT ISN'T THE
OVERALL DROP IN UNEMPLOYMENT A
VERY GOOD THING WE ASKED
DIAMOND?
>> THAT IS PROGRESS.
AND IF IT HAD HAPPENED IN HALF
THE LENGTH OF TIME, THINK HOW
MUCH BETTER OFF WE WOULD HAVE
BEEN.
>> Woodruff: NEW STATEWIDE CURBS
ON WATER USE ARE TAKING EFFECT
IN CALIFORNIA THIS WEEK AS IT
GRAPPLES WITH A MAJOR DROUGHT.
THE ENTIRE STATE IS SUFFERING
FROM A SEVERE DRY SPELL, AND THE
LATEST DATA SHOW NEARLY 60% IS
EXPERIENCING EXCEPTIONAL
DROUGHT.
AS THE DEBATE ABOUT CONSERVATION
MOVES TO UNDERGROUND WATER,
SCIENTISTS AND POLITICIANS ARE
TRYING TO REMEDY THE SITUATION
WITH RESEARCH AND NEW RULES.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IN NORMAL YEARS,
THIS OUTCROPPING IS AN ISLAND,
SURROUNDED BY WATER THAT FLOWS
DOWNHILL FROM YOSEMITE NATIONAL
PARK.
BUT THIS YEAR THE ISLAND IS
GONE, AND DON PEDRO LAKE, IN
CALIFORNIA'S CENTRAL VALLEY, IS
AN UGLY BATHTUB WITH AN
EXPANDING RING AROUND IT.
MOST MAJOR CALIFORNIA'S
RESERVOIRS ARE LESS THAN HALF
FULL.
RAINFALL HAS BEEN SPARSE, AND
ECONOMISTS SAY THE STATE-- WHICH
PRODUCES NEARLY HALF THE
NATION'S FRUITS AND VEGETABLES--
FACES A DROP OF $2.2 BILLION IN
AGRICULTURAL REVENUE, AND THE
LOSS OF 17,000 FARM-RELATED JOBS
BECAUSE OF THE DROUGHT.
SOME CROPS-- 5% OF THE TOTAL--
HAVE NOT BEEN PLANTED OR REMOVED
BECAUSE THERE ISN'T ENOUGH
WATER.
FELICIA MARCUS HEADS THE STATE
AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR DEALING
WITH THE SHORTAGE.
>> THIS IS THE MOST SERIOUS
DROUGHT THAT WE'VE HAD, NOT JUST
IN OUR OWN GENERATION, BUT IN
OUR GRANDPARENTS' GENERATION.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE A MUCH
GREATER IMPACT BECAUSE WE HAVE
MILLIONS MORE PEOPLE, MUCH MORE
FARMLAND, AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION
DEPENDENT ON IT AND MORE
ENDANGERED FISH AND WILDLIFE
THAT DON'T HAVE THE RESILIENCE
THEY ONCE DID.
>> Reporter: WATER USAGE HAS
ACTUALLY INCREASED SLIGHTLY THIS
YEAR.
AND ALTHOUGH MUCH OF THE FOCUS
ON OVERUSE HAS BEEN IN URBAN
AREAS, AGRICULTURE CONSUMES
ABOUT HALF OF CALIFORNIA'S WATER
IN DRY YEARS.
FOR DECADES, CALIFORNAS
DEVELOPED AND RELIED UPON WATER
--IN RIVERS AND CANALS AND
RESERVOIRS-- TO QUENCH ITS
THIRST.
BUT NOW, WITH SUCH HIGHLY
REGULATED SURFACE WATER IN SHORT
SUPPLY, WATER UNDER THE GROUND
IS ASSUMING A NEW ROLE.
>> THE DROUGHT HAS BROUGHT TO
THE FORE AN ISSUE THAT HAS
DIVIDED CALIFORNIANS FOR YEARS:
HOW-- AND WHETHER-- TO MANAGE
GROUNDWATER.
THAT'S THE WATER FARMERS AND
OTHERS GET FROM WELLS, AND
SCIENTISTS WOULD LIKE TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO MAP IT, AND HOW MUCH
OF IT THERE IS.
ON A FALLOW FARM NEAR
SACRAMENTO, MICHAEL PARKS HAS
BEEN HIRED TO DRILL FOR WATER,
SO THE OWNER CAN PLANT A NEW
FIELD OF ALMOND TREES.
WITH ALMOST NO SURFACE WATER
AVAILABLE FARMERS ARE TURNING TO
GROUNDWATER, AND ARE WILLING TO
PAY INCREASING FEES TO FIND IT
>> EVER SINCE THE DROUGHT HAS
BEEN GOING, WE'VE BASICALLY BEEN
RUNNING 24/7.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT ARE THE
CUSTOMERS TELLING YOU?
>> TO "HURRY UP; GET TO THEIR
PROPERTY AS QUICK AS POSSIBLE."
>> Reporter: THERE ARE ALMOST NO
RESTRICTIONS AND NO OVERSIGHT ON
DRILLING FOR GROUNDWATER IN
CALIFORNIA, UNLIKE MOST OTHER
STATES.
>> THE PRICE OF ALMONDS AND
WALNUTS ARE UP, SO A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING IN NEW
ORCHARDS, AND IF YOU DON'T HAVE
THE WATER, OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN'T
GROW THE TREE.
>> Reporter: BUT GROUNDWATER IS
NOT AN INFINITE RESOURCE, THOUGH
SCIENTISTS HAVE A HARD TIME
QUANTIFYING IT.
AT THE CENTER FOR WATERSHED
SCIENCES, AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA AT DAVIS,
HYDROLOGISTS GRAHAM FOGG AND
THOMAS HARDER ARE LOOKING FOR
FACTS. AND ANSWERS.
>> TOO MANY PEOPLE VIEW THE
GROUNDWATER SYSTEM AS A BIG
BLACK BOX THAT IS GOING TO KEEP
SUPPLYING WATER FOR THEM
INDEFINITELY.
IT'S NOT, IT CAN BE OVER DRAFTED
IT IS BEING OVERDRAFTED IN MANY
AREAS, AND THERE ARE
CONSEQUENCES TO THAT.
>> RIGHT NOW WE HAVE THE
HISTORICALLY LOWEST GROUNDWATER
LEVELS THAT WE'VE EVER
EXPERIENCED IN CALIFORNIA.
WE'RE USING MORE WATER THAN
WE'RE ABLE TO REPLENISH.
>> Reporter: FARMERS LIKE JAKE
WENGER AGREE THERE'S A PROBLEM.
SURFACE WATER ALLOCATIONS ARE
DOWN SIGNIFICANTLY THIS YEAR IN
THE MODESTO IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
WENGER AND HIS FATHER FARM 400
ACRES-- MOSTLY WALNUTS AND
ALMONDS-- NEAR MODESTO, AND THEY
SEE WELL WATER AS THE SOLUTION
UP TO A POINT.
>> THE QUESTION BECOMES: AS A
PERSON WHO CAN SINK A WELL, DO
YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO PUMP AS
MUCH WATER AS YOU CAN POSSIBLY
GET OUT OF THAT WELL, ESPECIALLY
IF IT'S DAMAGING A NEIGHBOR?
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION?
>> WELL, NO.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY SHOULD BE
ABLE TO PUMP WATER JUST FOR THE
SAKE OF PUMPING WATER, AND
THAT'S WHERE YOU'RE STARTING TO
SEE AROUND THE STATE WHERE
PEOPLE WANT TO SELL GROUNDWATER.
>> Reporter: BUT HOW MUCH WATER
CAN WENGER AND OTHER SAFELY PUMP
OUT OF THE GROUND?
AND WHO SHOULD DECIDE?
>> A LOT OF TIMES WE CAN OVER
REACT, AND SO I THINK LOOKING
FORWARD WE HAVE TO MAKE
DECISIONS BASED ON SCIENCE,
BASED ON SOUND SCIENCE, AND
RIGHT NOW THAT'S ONE OF THINGS
THAT WE'RE MISSING A LITTLE BIT
WHEN IT COMES TO UNDERSTANDING
GROUNDWATER, IS WHAT EXACTLY IS
HAPPENING UNDERNEATH OUR FEET.
>> Reporter: THE STATE WANTS TO
KNOW THAT TOO, AND MARCUS FEARS
SUBSIDENCE OR SINKING OF LAND IF
TOO MUCH WATER IS PUMPED.
>> WE WANT TO KNOW WHAT THE
SUSTAINABLE YIELD IS ON A BASIN,
HOW MUCH TIME THEY HAVE,.
WE ALSO HAVE ISSUES WHERE THE
GROUND IS SINKING SO RAPIDLY
THAT INFRASTRUCTURE IS
CRUMBLING, FLOOD CONTROL IS
BEING LOST, AND THAT'S SOMETHING
WE WANT TO KNOW.
>> Reporter: THE HYDROLOGISTS
HAVE ATTEMPTED ANSWER THOSE
QUESTIONS BY MAPPING SOME AREAS
AND MONITORING USAGE, BUT
THEY'VE BEEN HAMPERED BY A
CALIFORNIA LAW THAT ALLOWS
TO KEEP
WELL INFORMATION PRIVATE AND
UNAVAILABLE FOR STUDY BY
RESEARCHERS LIKE FOGG.
>> YOU CANNOT GAIN ACCESS TO
THOSE WELL LOGS.
DRILLERS RECORD WHAT THE
MATERIAL IS THAT THEY PENETRATE,
AND HOW THE WELL IS CONSTRUCTED.
THOSE PROVIDE FUNDAMENTAL DATA
POINTS FOR WHICH WE CAN CONNECT
THE DOTS AND BASICALLY MAKE ROAD
MAPS OF THE SUBSURFACE.
>> Reporter: FARMERS INCLUDING
WENGER FEAR THE GOVERNMENT WOULD
USE WELL RECORDS TO DICTATE HOW
TO FARM.
>> YOU COULD OPEN YOURSELF UP TO
A LAWSUIT FROM SOMEBODY SAYING
YOU ARE NOT PUTTING THAT WATER
TO BENEFICIAL USE.
NOW YOU LOSE THE FREEDOM OF
BEING ABLE TO PRODUCE WHATEVER
YOU WANT ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY,
NOW YOU HAVE SOMEONE ELSE
DETERMINING WHAT CROP YOU CAN
GROW AND HOW MUCH WATER YOU CAN
USE TO PRODUCE IT, AND THAT'S
NOT RIGHT.
>> Reporter: WENGER FAVORS
PROVIDING INFORMATION ON AN
AREA-WIDE, NOT AN INDIVIDUAL
BASIS.
BUT SOME UNDERGROUND WATER
SOURCES ARE DRYING UP AND
PREDICTIONS ARE VARIOUS AQUIFERS
WILL BECOME DEPLETED.
SO POLICY MAKERS ARE DEBATING
WHETHER THERE SHOULD BE NEW
STATEWIDE RULES OR ONLY LOCAL
CONTROL.
>> NEIGHBORS' WELLS HAVE STARTED
TO RUN DRY IN A VARIETY OF
LOCATIONS.
SO THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE AN
ONGOING DIALOGUE HAPPENING
AROUND THE STATE, CALLING FOR
SOME STATE ACTION TO HELP
ENCOURAGE LOCALS TO ACTUALLY
MANAGE THIS RESOURCE IN A FAIR
AND EQUITABLE WAY.
>> Reporter: GRAPE GROWER AL
ROSSINI WANTS TO BE SURE THE
STATE HAS A MINIMAL ROLE.
>> I THINK FARMERS ARE A BETTER
MANAGER OF THE GROUNDWATER THAN
BUREAUCRACY IS.
WE KNOW WHAT WE HAVE, WE KNOW
THE VALUE OF IT, WE CHERISH IT
AND WE USE IT WISELY.
>> Reporter: ROSSINI HAS FIGURED
OUT HIS OWN WAY TO MANAGE
GROUNDWATER ON 1,000 ACRES IN
EASTERN STANISLAUS COUNTY.
HE'S INSTALLED WELLS ON HIS LAND
IN FOOTHILLS THAT HAVE NO
SURFACE WATER.
HE'S GOT SENSORS IN THE GROUND
TO DETERMINE MOISTURE, AND HE
SITS IN HIS OFFICE AND DECIDES
WHEN TO WATER, AND HOW MUCH.
>> THE TECHNOLOGY FROM HERE TO
THE TYPE OF IRRIGATION THAT WAS
AVAILABLE 20 YEARS AGO, THIS HAS
SAVED OVER 40% WATER SAVINGS
ANNUALLY.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH HE HAS
ENOUGH WATER SO FAR, HE'S
WORKING ON A PLAN FOR HIS
EASTSIDE WATER DISTRICT TO
COLLECT RAINWATER BECAUSE HE
FEARS WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN
WELLS RUN DRY.
>> THE BANKS WILL COME TO YOU
AND SAY, "HEY NO WATER, NO
FINANCING."
THE PROBLEM WITH THE DROUGHT IS
IT'S GOT FINGERS LIKE A SPIDER.
>> Reporter: OTHERS-- FARMERS
AND SCIENTISTS-- ARE PROPOSING
WAYS TO PUT WASTEWATER INTO THE
GROUND, TO RECHARGE THE AQUIFER.
THEY ARE DEPENDING ON SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY--EVEN NASA
GROUNDWATER MAPS FROM SPACE,
PLUS SOME OLD FASHIONED WATER
POLITICS-- TO HELP THEM SURVIVE
A DROUGHT THAT SOME SCIENTISTS
SAY COULD LAST A VERY LONG TIME.
>> Woodruff: HOUSE REPUBLICANS
WERE RACING TO PASS SOMETHING ON
THE BORDER CRISIS AFTER A DAY OF
CONFUSION AND CHAOS ON CAPITOL
HILL THURSDAY.
FOR A TASTE OF WHAT WENT ON
TODAY, HERE'S SOME OF WHAT WE
HEARD FROM BOTH SIDES.
WE WERE ABLE TO TO HAVE 218,
ARGUABLY THE MOST MONUMENTAL
VOTE WE WILL TAKE IN THIS ENTIRE
TERM DEALING WITH THE ISSUE THAT
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE CARE ABOUT
MORE THAN ANY OTHER AND THAT IS
STOPPING THE INVASION OF
INTERNATIONALS INTO OUR COUNTRY.
>> IT IS ALMOST AS THOUGH THEY
DESPISE AND HATE ALL OUR
CHILDREN BECAUSE EVEN THE
CHILDREN THAT CAME BEFORE THEM
THAT HAVE PLEDGED ALLEGIANCE TO
THE FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
ALL OF THEIR LIVES, LOVED THIS
COUNTRY, AND THE PRESIDENT HAS
AFFORDED THEM AN OPPORTUNITY TO
BECOME LEGAL, THEY WANT TO PUT
THEM IN AN ILLEGAL SITUATION.
>> Woodruff: IT CAPS OFF WHAT'S
BEEN A ROLLER-COASTER WEEK IN
U.S. POLITICS.
AND HERE TO ANALYZE IT ALL:
SHIELDS AND BROOKS...
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
SO, GENTLEMEN, HIGH TEMPERS AT
THE CAPITOL YESTERDAY AND TODAY.
DAVID, WHAT DO WE MAKE OF ALL
THIS?
>> IT'S SORT OF HAPPENING ON TWO
LEVELS.
THERE'S THE POLITICAL META LEVEL
AND THE SUBSTANCE LEVEL.
THE META LEVEL IS NOTHING IS
GOING TO PASS, NOTHING IS GOING
TO HAPPEN.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT NEGOTIATING A
BILL THAT HAS ZERO CHANCE OF
BECOMING LAW.
SO IT'S TED CRUZ AND HOUSE
MEMBERS POSITIONING AGAINST THE
LEADERSHIP, WE'VE HAD SOME
THINGS POSITIONING FOR
VOTERS.
SO IT'S ALL ABOUT POSITIONING.
AS FOR THE SUBSTANCE, I FRANKLY
DON'T UNDERSTAND THE REPUBLICAN
POSITION AT ALL.
YOU HAVE A REFUGEE CRISIS, YOU
HAVE THESE KIDS COMING HERE.
THERE'S A NEED FOR A BALANCED
APPROACH.
YES.
YOU HAVE TO SECURE THE BOARDER,
YES, THERE HAVE TO BE HEARINGS,
YES, THERE HAS TO BE A SPED-UP
PROCESS AND MONEY.
SOME SORT OF BALANCED APPROACH
SEEMS SENSIBLE.
SECURING THE BORDER, DEPORTING
SOME WHO CAN SENT BACK FAIRLY,
BUT THEN HAVING HEARINGS TO
FIGURE OUT WHO'S WHO.
AND THE REPUBLICANS, BASICALLY
THE POLITICAL EMPHASIS THAT'S
COME OUT IS DEPORT, DEPORT,
DEPORT, WALL, WALL, WALL.
SEEMS TO ME TO MAKE LITTLE SENSE
IN THE SHORT TERM AND EXTREMELY
DAMAGING FOR REPUBLICANS IN THE
LONG TERM.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU MAKE
SENSE OF IT?
>> JUDY, FIRST OF ALL, THESE
KIDS -- AND THEY ARE KIDS,
OVERWHELMINGLY, IN CHAOS,
EXPLOITATION AND VIOLENCE, AND
SOMEHOW THAT'S BEEN LOST IN THE
DEBATE IN WASHINGTON.
I MEAN, THE VIEW SOMEHOW THIS MY
GROUP OF INVADERS WHO ARE
ACTUALLY KIDS WHO ARE THOUSANDS
OF MILES FROM HOME AND DON'T
SPEAK THE LANGUAGE.
THE MAJORITY ARE SAYING GET
TOUGH ON THE KIDS.
W SIGNED IN 2008 BY PROVIDED THM
LEGAL COUNSEL, FORGET THAT,
LET'S IGNORE THAT AND GO
FORWARD.
I ACCEPTS IN THE REPUBLICANS
RIGHT NOW IN THE HOUSE A
POLITICAL IMPERATIVE AND THATS
THEY RECALL 2010, FOUR YEARS
AGO, IN THE MONTH OF ALL, WHICH
WAS WHEN THAT ELECTION REALLY
CHANGED WITH THE TOWN MEETINGS
IN THEIR HOME DISTRICTS, AND
NONE OF THEM WANTS TO GO BACK,
APPARENTLY, OR VERY FEW OF THEM
RUN A RISK HAVING SOMEBODY STAND
UP AND ACCUSE THEM OF AMNESTY,
THAT YOU ARE GOING TO LET
ILLEGALS, UNDOCUMENTEDS IN.
SO I AGREE WITH DAVID, THEY'VE
LABORED MIGHTILY AND PRODUCED
THIS MOUSE THAT'S GOING NOWHERE,
IS STILL BORN AND NOT EVEN
SYMBOLICALLY IMPRESSIVE.
>> Woodruff: IF THEY FEEL SO
STRONGLY ABOUT THIS, WHY AREN'T
THEY ABLE TO COME TOGETHER AND
GET SOMETHING PASSED?
>> A COUPLE OF REASONS.
FIRST, A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS
COUNTRY, LEGITIMATELY, THINK
THERE IS NO CONTROL OF THE
BORDER AND THIS ISSUE
ILLUSTRATES THE CHAOS ON THE
BORDER AND THAT'S FAIR.
SECONDLY, THE REPUBLICANS DREW
THE POINT THE ORIGINAL BILL, THE
2008 LAW PASSED UNDER
PRESIDENT BUSH HAS SOME ROLE IN
DRAWING PEOPLE UP HERE AND THAT
PROBABLY DOESN'T NEED IT TO
CHANGE.
>> THIS IS THE ONE THAT MADE IT
EASIER FOR CHILDREN TO COME IN.
IT SENSE A FALSE NOTE THAT
PEOPLE CAN SEND THEIR KIDS AND
THEY WILL BE LET IN.
SO THAT'S FAIR ENOUGH.
THIS IS ABOUT THE G.O.P., THIS
IS NOT ABOUT PASSING
LEGISLATION, NOT ABOUT WE SHOULD
PAY ATTENTION TO THE LEADERS AND
COMPROMISE, THIS IS ABOUT MAKING
A STATEMENT THAT WILL SOUND GOOD
ON FOX.
THEY WANT TO MAKE A STATEMENT TO
SOUND GOOD ON TV OR A SOUND
MEETING BUT IT'S NOT ACTUALLY
GOVERNING.
TED CRUZ MET WITH A BUNCH OF
HOUSE MEMBERS AND SORT OF HELPED
ORGANIZE THIS.
SO WHICH SENATOR IS GOING TO
STAND UP AND BE THE ANTI-CRUZ?
WHO IS GOING TO STAND UP FOR
REPUBLICAN VALUES BUT I BELIEVE
IN GOVERNORRING?
SO FAR, THAT PERSON HAS NOT
EMERGED.
>> SORT OF CYNICALLY, DEMOCRATS
ARE PLAYING A BAD FIELD IN THIS
ELECTION.
THE PRESIDENT'S JOB RATING IS
BELOW 40s, IN THE 30s IN
SOME KEY BATTLEGROUND STATES.
IN ADDITION, PEOPLE THINK THE
COUNTRY IS HEADING IN THE WRONG
DIRECTION AND THE INTENSITY IS
WITH REPUBLICANS IN MOST POLLS
OVER THE DEMOCRATIC VOTERS AND
THE REPUBLICANS ARE KICKING THIS
AWAY.
THEY'VE TAKEN AN ISSUE WHICH WAS
THE ADMINISTRATION'S
RESPONSIBILITY, THE BORDER, ANY
ADMINISTRATION'S RESPONSIBILITY,
AND ALL OF A SUDDEN THEY'VE
CLOUDED IT UP, PLAYING DEFENSE,
TRYING TO EXPLAIN IT, AND STEVE
KING, WHO IS THE MOST ARDENT
ANTI-COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REPUBLICAN OF THE HOUSE, HE'S
CHARIOTLING THAT THIS IS THE
BILL I PICKED FROM MY MENU AND
THAT'S EXACTLY WHERE I DON'T
WANT TO BE.
>> ALL THE GUTS AND ALL THE
COURAGE ARE ON ONE SIDE AND THE
POLICY FLOWS TO WHERE THE
COURAGE AND ENERGY IS AND
THERE'S BEEN VERY LITTLE COURAGE
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
I MIGHT DISAGREE AND IT'S TOO
SOON TO TELL WHETHER THIS
AFFECTS THIS ELECTION.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHAT I
WANTED TO ASK.
>> THE GALLUP ORGANIZATION DOES
WHICH PARTY ARE YOU LEANING
TOWARD AND THE DEMOCRATS ARE
ALWAYS AHEAD BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
LOWER TURNOUT SO THE DEMOCRATS
HAVE THE LEANING ADVANTAGE TO DO
WELL IN THE FALL TERM.
RIGHT NOW THEY'RE LENING TOWARD
ADVANTAGE, ONLY 2% MORE PEOPLE
SAY THEY'RE LEANING TO BECOME A
DEMOCRAT THAN REPUBLICAN, THAT'S
A SMALL MARGIN HISTORICALLY, THE
SIMILAR MARGIN THAT EXISTED IN
'94, 2002, 2010, WHICH WERE ALL
GOOD REPUBLICAN YEARS.
SO IF I WERE TO LOOK TO THE
POLLING, I STILL THINK IT'S A
GOOD REPUBLICAN YEAR UNLESS THIS
HAS AN EFFECT IN THE NEXT WEEKS
AND MONTHS AHEAD.
>> I THINK IT HAS AFFECT ON THE
REPUBLICANS, NOT WHAT 2010 DID,
BUT IN A STRANGE WAY SOME
DEMOCRATS ARE LOOKING --
ESPECIALLY PRESIDENTIAL, THOSE
CONCERNED WITH THE 2016 RACE --
ARE ALMOST SAYING, GIVEN THE
PERFORMANCE OF THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS OR EVEN THIS SESSION
AND THE TROUBLE THEY HAVE BEEN
FOR JOHN BOEHNER AND THE REVOLTS
THEY'VE LED AND ALL THE REST OF
IT, IT MIGHT BE THE BEST THING
FOR THE DEMOCRAT'S POLITICAL
ADVANTAGE IF THE REPUBLICANS
CONTROL BOTH THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE AFTER THE 2014 ELECTION
AND THEN --
>> Woodruff: THAT'S CYNICAL.
IT'S CYNICAL, BUT THEY HAVE
NO GOVERNORRING PHILOSOPHY.
52 TIMES THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS
VOTED AGAINST THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, TO REPEAL
ObamaCare.
TO THIS DAY AS WE SIT HERE,
THERE IS NO REPUBLICAN
HEALTHCARE PLAN.
THIS IS FIVE YEARS.
>> THEY DISPUTE THAT.
THEY HAVE AN AGENDA.
I THINK THERE'S A BROADER
AGENDA.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO COME
BACK TO DAVID'S POINT THAT
WHERE'S THE ANTI-TED CRUZ.
THERE IS A BIG SCHOOL OF THOUGHT
IN THE REPUBLICAN THAT THIS IS
THE WRONG WAY TO GO, BUT WHERE
ARE THOSE FOLKS?
>> I'M NOT EVENLK ABOUT
MODERATES, THERE ARE VERY
CONSERVATIVE NUMBERS THAT
DISLIKE CRUZ AND THINK WE HAVE
HE JUST BELIEVE IN
THE INSTITUTION, HE HAS NOT
EMERGED.
>> THEY HAVE ANTI-CRUZ -- TED
CRUZ DID SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY
UNPRECEDENTED, AS A SENATOR
MEETING WITH A COUPLE DOZEN
HOUSE MEMBERS TO BASICALLY
REVOLT AGAINST THE LEADERSHIP,
AND THIS IS THE FIRST TEST OF
THE BOEHNER AND McCARTHY
LEADERSHIP AND THIS IS GOING TO
BE THE NEW TEAM AFTER ERIC
CANTOR'S DEFEAT AND RESIGNATION
AND, YOU KNOW, THEY'VE GOT EGG
ALL OVER THEIR FACE.
THAT PURPOSE, WHAT DID IT
ACHIEVE?
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE RIGHT.
THIS IS THE FIRST CHANCE FOR
THEM TO SHOW WHAT THEY CAN DO.
TOUGH SUBJECT, BUT I DO WANT TO
TURN US FOR THE LAST FEW MINUTES
TO THE MIDDLE EAST.
YOU TALKED TO MARGARET ABOUT IT,
ESPECIALLY SINCE THE LATEST
CEASE FIRE HASN'T WORKED OUT, DO
YOU SEE ANY WAY THROUGH ANY
LIGHT, ANYTHING POSITIVE TO
BRING THIS TO A PLACE OF
RESOLUTION?
>> WELL, I MEAN, I HOPE THERE
IS.
I HOPE WITH SEEING THE PRICE
PEOPLE ARE PAYING IN LIVES, JUST
WHAT IT HAS DONE, IT STRIKES ME
THAT ISRAEL IN PARLANCE HAS WON
THE BATTLE AND LOST THE WAR OR
IS IN DANGER OF LOSING THE WAR,
AND I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE
POLL OF THE DEVELOPED COUNTRIES,
THE UNITED STATES STANDS ALONE
IN ITS UNFLINCHING SUPPORT OF
ISRAEL.
ISRAEL HAS A SENSE OF A NEGATIVE
INFLUENCE IN THE WORLD AMONG
GREAT BRITAIN, AMONG AUSTRALIA,
SOUTH KOREA, JAPAN, YOU NAME IT,
AND THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN
STALWART AND, FOR THE FIRST
TIME, YOU'VE SEEN IN THIS
EXPERIENCE SUPPORT DROP, AND
IT'S DROPPED, INTERESTINGLY,
AMONG YOUNGER VOTERS, VOTERS
UNDER THE AGE OF 30, PEOPLE
DON'T GO TO CHURCH.
IT'S BASICALLY THE EMERGING
DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY -- LATINOS,
AFRICAN-AMERICANS -- SO I THINK,
IN THAT SENSE, IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT THERE BE A PEACE ACHIEVED,
REACHED, AN ACCORD REACHED AND
WAR STOPPED.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, DO YOU SEE
DIVISION OR LASTING SEPARATIONS
BETWEEN THE U.S. AND ISRAEL
COMING OUT?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
AND IN MANY WAYS THERE'S BEEN
MORE UNITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ITSELF.
THESE COUNTRIES ARE MORE OR LESS
ON ISRAEL'S SIDE.
YOU NOTICE HOW QUIET THEY HAVE
BEEN BECAUSE THEY ALL THINK THE
SOLUTION IS TO WEAKEN HAMAS, AND
I THINK THAT IS THE SOLUTION IN
ISRAEL.
A WEST WING NOVELIST SAID WHAT
WOULD YOU DO IF AN ASSASSIN PUTS
HIS CHILD ON YOUR LAP AND STARTS
SHOOTING YOUR NURSERY SCHOOL?
THE ISRAELIS ARE UNITED THEY
NEED TO WEAKEN HAMAS AND THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD
SUPPORTS THAT SO I THINK WE'RE
IN FOR A LONGER WAR AND
BLOODSHED BUT THE WEAK
WITHENNENNING OF HAMAS SEEMS A
GOAL OF VALUE.
>> Woodruff: IN THE MEANTIME,
THE STEADY PICTURES OF
CASUALTIES --
>> THE CHILDREN.
IT'S THE CHILDREN AT THE BORDER
AND IT'S THE CHILDREN IN GAZA.
I MEAN, THE CHILDREN HAVE
ABSOLUTELY NO INFLUENCE, NO
VOICE ON WHO'S AT WAR AND WHO
ISN'T, BUT THE ONE THING I WOULD
SAY ABOUT ISRAEL IS IT'S BEEN A
LONG TIME SINCE ISRAEL HAS
SOUGHT THE MORAL GOOD OF SYRIA
AND SAWED AREA.
THOSE ARE NOT EXACTLY ETHICAL --
>> JUST TALKING ABOUT THE
ALLIANCES, UNIFICATION WITHIN
LARGE PARTS OF THE WORLD, NOT
QATAR AND TURKEY, BUT AGAINST
HAMAS.
>> Woodruff: TOUGH ALL THE WAY
AROUND.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
THANK YOU BOTH.
FOR WHAT CONGRESS IS DOING ON
IMMIGRATION TONIGHT CHECK THE
RUNDOWN ON OUR WEB SITE.
FINALLY TONIGHT: AS THE NATIONAL
FOOTBALL LEAGUE GETS SET TO KICK
OFF ITS PRE-SEASON THIS WEEKEND,
A DOMESTIC ABUSE CASE-- AND THE
LEAGUE'S RESPONSE TO IT-- HAS
CAST A DARK CLOUD OVER THE
PLAYING FIELD.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR STORY.
>> I LET SO MANY PEOPLE DOWN
BECAUSE OF 30 SECONDS OF MY LIFE
THAT, YOU KNOW, I KNOW I CAN'T
TAKE BACK.
>> Brown: BALTIMORE RAVENS
RUNNING BACK RAY RICE SPOKE
PUBLICLY YESTERDAY.
THE FIRST TIME SINCE RECEIVING A
TWO-GAME SUSPENSION AND FINE.
HE WAS ARRESTED IN FEBRUARY FOR
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AGAINST HIS
THEN-FIANCEE, NOW WIFE, JANAY
PALMER.
A T.M.Z SPORTS VIDEO SHOWED HIM
DRAGGING HER, UNCONSCIOUS, OUT
OF AN ELEVA
>> THAT NIGHT, YOU KNOW, I JUST
REPLAY OVER AND OVER IN MY HEAD.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S NOT ME.
MY ACTIONS WERE INEXCUSABLE AND,
YOU KNOW, THAT'S SOMETHING I
HAVE TO LIVE FOR-- HAVE TO LIVE
WITH THE REST OF MY LIFE.
>> Brown: RICE-- ONE OF THE
N.F.L'S LEADING RUSHERS-- HAS
ENTERED A PRETRIAL INTERVENTION
PROGRAM.
WHEN HE COMPLETES IT, CRIMINAL
CHARGES AGAINST HIM COULD BE
DROPPED.
THE CASE AND ITS AFTERMATH SET
OFF A FIRESTORM OF PUBLIC
CRITICISM THAT THE LEAGUE'S
PUNISHMENT WAS TOO LENIENT.
BUT TODAY COMMISSIONER ROGER
GOODELL DEFENDED HIS DECISION.
HE SPOKE AT THE N.F.L HALL OF
FAME IN CANTON, OHIO.
>> I THINK WHAT'S IMPORTANT HERE
IS THAT RAY HAS TAKEN
RESPONSIBILITY.
HE'S BEEN ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS
ACTIONS.
HE RECOGNIZES HE MADE A HORRIBLE
MISTAKE THAT IS UNNACCEPTABLE BY
HIS STANDARDS, BY OUR STANDARDS,
AND HE'S GOT TO WORK TO RE-
ESTABLISH HIMSELF.
>> Brown: SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE
MEDIA ALSO TOOK HEAT FOR THEIR
COVERAGE OF THE SITUATION.
E.S.P.N ANALYST STEPHEN A. SMITH
SPARKED AN UPROAR WHE
WOMEN SHOULDN'T, "DO ANYTHING TO
PROVOKE WRONG ACTION."
FOR HIS PART, WITHOUT SPECIFICS,
RICE SAID YESTERDAY HE PLANS TO
HELP FIGHT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IN
THE FUTURE.
SPORTSWRITER AND COLUMNIST
SA TODAY"
AND ABC NEWS HAS BEEN COVERING
THIS STORY.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME, CHRIS KEEN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: FIRST OF ALL, AS SO
OFTEN, THIS IS ABOUT THE
INCIDENT AND THEN THE RESPONSE,
RIGHT?
FILL IN THE BLANKS FOR THOSE NOT
FOLLOWING THIS.
>> YES, WELL, OF COURSE, YOU
HAVE THIS TERRIBLE INCIDENT AND
THE VIDEO WHICH BROUGHT IT HOME
TO SO MANY PEOPLE, RAY RICE THE
STAR RUNNING BACK FOR THE
BALTIMORE RAVENS AND ANNOUNCE OF
A TWO-GAME SUSPENSION.
THERE WAS A FIVE-GAME SUSPENSION
ONCE FOR A PLAYER FOR STOMPING
ON SOMEONE.
THERE HAVE BEEN MUCH LONGER
SUSPENSIONS FOR MANY, MANY OTHER
THINGS.
>> Brown: WELL,
PERFORMANCE-ENHANCING DRUGS.
IT RILES PEOPLE UP.
>> TWO GAMES SEEMS ALMOST LIKE
NOTHING AND IT WAS A
THREE-PAYCHECK, SO $529,000 FOR
TWO GAMES.
AND THAT OCCURRED ABOUT A WEEK
AGO.
ACTUALLY MORE THAN A WEEK AGO,
JEFF, AND LITERALLY THE
CONVERSATION STILL HAS NOT
STOPPED.
SO THIS CRITICISM OF THE
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AND
COMMISSIONER I FOUND HEARTENING,
AS BAD AS THE DECISION WAS, AS
LENIENT AS MUCH AS THE N.F.L.
LITERALLY FUMBLED THE DECISION,
I THINK THE REACTION HAS BEEN
WONDERFUL TO SEE HOW PEOPLE
REACTED AGAINST THE N.F.L.
>> Brown: TELL US A LITTLE
MORE ABOUT RAY RICE.
I MEAN, THE FEEL OF THIS.
HE IS A VERY TALENTED FOOTBALL
PLAYER.
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY, AND HIS
RECORD, AS EVERYONE HAS SAID,
HAS BEEN CLEAN.
SO THAT MAY WELL HAVE GONE INTO
THE CALCULATION, AND IT DID WHEN
THE COMMISSIONER ROGER GOODELL
SAID THERE HAVE BEEN NO PREVIOUS
INCIDENTS.
SO TWO GAMES IS WHAT HE FELT WAS
APPROPRIATE.
MY RESPONSE TO THAT AND SO MANY
PEOPLE'S RESPONSE IS, OF COURSE,
THAT DOESN'T MATTER, AN ABUSER
IS AN ABUSER AND WHEN YOU SEE
WHAT HE DID AND HOW HE'S
DRILLING HIS SOON-TO BE-LIFE'S
BODY OUT OF THE ELEVATOR, HE'S
BOY SCOUT TO THAT POINT OR NOT,
SEEMS LIKE EVERYTHING CHANGED.
>> Brown: YOU SAW HIS
STATEMENT YESTERDAY?
>> I DID, YES.
>> Brown: AND WHAT WOULD YOU
TAKE FROM THAT?
>> IT WAS A START TO ME.
A YOUNG MAN CLEARLY OUT OF HIS
ELEMENT.
OF COURSE, ALL OF HIS OWN DOING,
ALL SELF-INDUCED, NO SYMPATHY AT
ALL.
BUT WHAT I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO
SEE WAS MORE A CONCRETE
STATEMENT OF WHAT HE
SPECIFICALLY WANTS TO DO --
MONEY, TIME, DONATIONS.
LOOKING IN THE CAMERA AND SAYING
TO MEN LIKE HIM WHO HAVE ABUSED
WOMEN THAT WE'VE GOT TO STOP
THIS, OBVIOUSLY HE WASN'T UP TO
THAT.
LET'S HOPE THAT HE CAN START TO
TAKE OWNERSHIP OF THIS AND LEAD
THE WAY AS THE N.F.L. HOPEFULLY
DOES A LOT MORE ON THIS ISSUE.
>> Brown: THIS, OF COURSE, IS
A VERY VIOLENT SPORT AND HAS HAD
A LOT OF DIFFERENT INCIDENTS
THROUGH THE YEARS.
DO YOU SEE THIS AS FITTING INTO
SOME LARGER PROBLEM FOR THE
SPORT OR NOT?
FOR THE SPORT NOT KNOWING QUITE
HOW TO DEAL WITH RESPONDING TO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> ACTUALLY, I THINK, YES, THE
VIOLENCE IS THERE, BUT SEEMS TO
ME THE N.F.L., BEING THE BIGGEST
LEAD IN THE COUNTRY, THE MOST
POPULAR BY FAR, THAT THIS IS
THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO BE A LEADER
IN THIS.
THEY HAVE SO MANY YOUNG MEN,
OBVIOUSLY, IN THE LEAGUE, AND
WHY NOT LOOK AT THIS AS THE
OPENING TO PUTTING CONSIDERABLE
MIGHT AND EFFORT BEHIND A CAUSE
THAT IS SO IMPORTANT, AN ISSUE
THAT IS SO IMPORTANT IN THIS
COUNTRY?
SO I LOOK AT IT AS ANRTUNITY.
PEOPLE SAY, OH, IT'S A VIOLENT
SPORT, THAT'S AN EXCUSE, OF
COURSE, AND I THINK THE N.F.L.
SHOULD BE BEYOND ALLOWING THOSE
EXCUSES TO EXIST.
>> Brown: AND YOU SAID IT IS
MOST POPULAR SPORT.
THE SEASON WILL START SOON.
DO FANS CARE?
IS THE LEAGUE LOOKING AT THIS AS
POTENTIALLY DAMAGING?
>> I HAVE NEVER SEEN A REACTION
TO SOMETHING GO ON THIS LONG AND
BE THIS STRONG AND I THINK
THAT'S GREAT IN THE SENSE THAT I
THINK THE DECISION WAS WRONG.
SO IT WILL CARRY OVER CERTAINLY
INTO GAINS WHERE THEY START
PLAYING ON THE ROAD.
I'M SURE RAY RICE IS GOING TO
HEAR.
ON THE OTHER HAND, RAVENS FANS
WERE CHEERING HIM AND SAW THEM
POP UP ON THE BOARD THE OTHER
SO FANS ARE FANS AND CHEER FOR
THE JERSEY LET'S HOPE THE SAME
APPROACH COMES UP WHERE PEOPLE
SAY IF THIS MAN MOVED DOWN THE
STREET FROM ME I WOULD BE
HORRIFIED TO FIND OUT WHAT HE
DID AND LET'S HOPE THE FANS
REACT IN A NEGATIVE WAY TOWARDS
HIM NOT THAT YOU WANT TO TAKE IT
OUT MORE ON HIM BUT THAT IT'S
WRONG AND THE N.F.L. IS GETTING
THE IDEA THAT THIS IS
UNACCEPTABLE IN 2014.
>> Brown: THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
>> Ifill: WE MISSPELLED TOM
FRIEDEN'S LAST NAME.
WE APOLOGIZE.
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ISRAELI TROOPS SEARCHED SOUTHERN
GAZA TODAY FOR AN ARMY OFFICER
THEY BELIEVE WAS CAPTURED BY
HAMAS FIGHTERS.
HIS APPARENT CAPTURE AS A CEASE-
FIRE COLLAPSED, ONLY HOURS AFTER
IT WAS AGREED TO.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ACKNOWLEDGED THE
U.S. WAS INVOLVED IN TORTURE IN
THE IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF THE
9/11 ATTACKS AND THE STOCK
MARKET CLOSED OUT ITS WORST WEEK
IN TWO YEARS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW: NEW PARENTS KNOW THE
FEELING OF SLEEP-DEPRIVATION,OWD
THAT MOMS REMAIN AT DANGEROUSLY
HIGH LEVELS OF FATIGUE, EVEN
AFTER HER BABY IS SLEEPING MORE
REGULARLY THROUGH THE NIGHT.
READ MORE ABOUT THOSE FINDINGS,
ON OUR RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: YOU KNOW THAT SAYING
ABOUT GETTING STUCK BETWEEN A
ROCK AND A HARD PLACE?
YOU PICK THE CONTROVERSY --
IMMIGRATION, TRANSPORTATION,
VETERANS AFFAIRS, RUSSIA,
UKRAINE, ISRAEL, GAZA AND TIGHT
SPOTS ABOUND.
WE'LL TACKLE THEM ALL LATER
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
MILLIONS OF POOR AMERICANS ARE
NOW ELIGABLE FOR HEALTH
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY WHEN AFRICAN LEADERS
TRAVEL TO WASHINGTON FOR THE
FIRST EVER WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT TO
EXPLORE U.S. COLLABORATION WITH
THE CONTINENT.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.